SQL Worksheet

1. A),B) and D)
2. A), B) and C)
3. B) Structured Query Language
4. B) Data Definition Language
5. A) Data Manipulation Language
6. C) Create Table A(B int, C float)
7. B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float
8. D) None of them
9. B) Alter Table A Alter Column D int
10. A) Alter Tabl A Add Constraint Primary Key B

11. Data Warehouse 

   Data warehousing is the electronic storage of a large amount of information by a business or organization. A data warehouse is designed to run query and analysis on historical data derived from transactional sources for business intelligence and data mining purposes. 


12. Difference between OLTP VS OLAP?

                        OLAP                                               OLTP

1. Consists of historical data from various databases.          Consists only operational current data.
2. It is subject oriented. Used for Data Mining, Analytics,     It is application oriented. Used for business tasks.
   Decision making, etc. 
3. The data is used in planning, problem solving and            The data is used to perform day to day fundamental operations.
   decision making.
4. Reveals a snapshot of present business tasks.                Provides a multi-dimensional view of different business tasks. 
5. Large amount of data is stored typically in TB,PB.           Size of data is relatively small as historical data is archived. For ex MB,GB.
6. Relatively slow as the amount of data involved is            Very fast as the queries operate on 5% of the data.
   large. Queries may take hours. 
7. This data is generally managed by CEO, MD, GM.               This data is managed by clerks, managers. 

13. Data Warehouse characteristics - 

  Three prominent warehouse characteristics - 

  1. Integrated - The way data is extracted and transferred in uniform, regardless of the original source. 
  2. Time-variant - Data is organized via time-periods (weekly, monthly)
  3. Non-volatile - Data warehouse is not updated in real-time. It is periodically updated via the uploading of data, protecting it from influence of momentary change. 

14. What is Star Schema?
 
  In Star Schema, the center of the star can have one fact table and a number of associated dimension tables. It is known as star schema as its structure resembles a star.
  The star schema is the simplest type of Data Warehouse schema. 

15. SETL - 

  SET Language is a very-high level programming language with dynamic typing and dynamic data structures, based on the mathematical notion of set. 